# Motorola MC6800 Evaluation Kit II

## A litlle background

Motorola introduced the MC800 8-bit processor, in competition with Intel's 8008 and 8080, in 1974.
It's instruction set was simple and clean - inspired by the PDP-8 - and it came with a whole family of associated memory and I/O devices which made it easy to build a complete system.
To help people getting to know the MC6800 family, Motorola introduced the **Motorola MEK6800D2 Evaluation Kit II** (MEK6800D2).
This Kit, when assembled, was a fully functional microcomputer system based on the MC6800 Microprocessing Unit (MPU).

I bought this Kit as my second microcomputer, after the National Semiconductor SC/MP II, and created various simple programs, inluding _Mastermind_.
The standard Kit, consiting of a Microcomputer Module and a Keyboard/Display Module, included:

* The MC6800 MPU.
* The JBUG monitor in a MCM6830 1K x  8 bit ROM (SCM44520P).
* 3 MCM6810 RAM Memory modules (128 x 8 bit).
* 2 MC6820 Peripheral Interface Adapters (PIA's)had some fun with it.

Because both the MPU and the serial interface use the same clock, the MPU is running at only 614.4 kHz generated by a MC6871B, even though it is capable of running at 1 MHz. This provides a simple means of obtaining a 4800 Hz clock for the 300 baud serial data tape cassette interface as well as the ACIA by just dividing the MC6871B provided double clock output by 256.

Programs could be stored on, and loaded from, ordinary audio cassettes using the "Kansas City Standard" recording format, so called due to its formulation during a symposium sponsored by _BYTE Magazine_ in Kansas City, Missouri, in November 1975.
